the DIY pcs andö ATX case is a new egg
sort by lowest price staple it currently
cost $34 falling in a price bracket
that's almost entirely occupied by other
cases also from DIY PC but the price
fluctuates constantly by one to two
dollars in a way that suggests it exists
on the razor's edge of profitability the
most expensive enclosure they have for
sale directly from new egg is $80 for an
obviously half inspired full tower case
called the skyline oh six we've never
mentioned DIY PC before this month but
over the years we've watched them
quietly refining the art of selling
cases that look twenty years out of date
for alarmingly low prices and today
we're reviewing one of those cases
before that this video is brought to you
by EVGA Tsar TX 20 atti XC ultra the
twenty atti XC ultra is what we use in
our CP reviews to avoid GPU bottlenecks
the XC ultra uses hydraulic dynamic
bearing fans for reduced noise features
r-tx support for DX our titles and uses
a massive 2.75 slot cooler the cooler
design allows the fans to spin slower
and quieter while sinking heat further
leveraging a mix of l-shaped and
traditional fins to maximize airflow or
contact learn more at the link in the
description below
the DIY PC Zonda o is an exercise and
reusing tooling and trying to keep the
cost down as much as possible by taking
something really old obviously old from
a case that existed a long time ago and
we can't quite identify what its origin
was and then selling it new for 30
something dollars so that's really all
this tries to do and we originally
bought this case because when we talk
about budget cases we typically look at
50 to $60 products that by what some of
our commenters have said are too good or
too expensive and so we needed to look
lower still and that's what we did but
there's a reason we don't normally go
below about 50 bucks and it's because
there is a baseline for quality and you
can find it by price and this does go
below that baseline but it has a purpose
in the market that's mostly to work for
systems where you just you really don't
have the extra $10 to spend and you need
literally anything to put the components
in and that's what this box is it's it's
better than nothing
is part of the the theme for some of
this review although it does have a few
things it's done
not completely terribly like the side
panel fan which we need to talk about
because that's a resurgence of an older
approach the case design that's actually
worked out really well for DIY PC and
it's a Zonda oh one more note before we
kind of get into this the spec sheet for
this case does list a few things that we
can't independently verify or vouch for
and one of those things is quote
radiation protection design safe and
environmental so use with radioactive
material at your own risk maybe for
storing depleted uranium or something
we're not really quite sure what that
means but either way we need to go
through a really long build section
about all the different things in this
case that are interesting in the least
like the old floppy drive mounts and the
two-out-of-three unusable five and a
quarter inch drive bays for optical
drives and also the 80 millimeter fan
mount that pulls air in from nowhere and
sends it to nowhere and then we need to
talk about thermal performance we should
say up front that we're not just here to
dunk on the Zonda it has its place we've
actually sort of recommended it as part
of an ultra budget system recently which
is why we happen to have one in the
office wrote a state that said it's a
relief to take a look at an
old-fashioned bargain-basement case once
in a while and see how far we've come if
we ever start feeling like one case is
just as good as the next we can take a
look at the Zonda and give our lives
purpose again the Zonda spelled zo n DDA
is presumably named after the sports car
the extra D stands for don't sue us for
trademark infringement the idea of
modeling PC hardware after fast cars is
so played out that it wraps back around
again and so being charmingly quaint and
the 2000s ish case design with smooshing
lines and translucent orange LED
illuminated fans has a retro look that
might make up for how incredibly cheap
it looks we're not the lowest bar we
could possibly set for the Zonda is
being able to physically fit all of our
components and it passed that test both
side panels are bellied out for a little
bit of extra clearance for cables and
coolers and it works the Zonda is
officially more functional than the cool
Man three body which
required some gentle persuasion with
pliers and tin snips to fit our GPU even
though the convex sides of the case
provide some room it doesn't make it any
easier to decide where to tie the loose
cables down the motherboard tray has
zero space other than what's scooped out
of the side panel there's no power
supply shroud and the front of the case
is full of unremovable harddrive cages
actually drive cages we need to drop the
harddrive aspect since our test system
requires relatively few cables we were
able to bundle them up against the side
of the drive cages without too much fuss
the larger issue was the lack of an EPS
12-volt cutout we haven't had to
complain about insufficient cutouts
above the motherboard tray for years now
the last time I can remember doing it
was before
Patrick was even working here full-time
it was a long time ago the Zonda blew
right past insufficient for cutouts
though and transcended to none at all
four plugs at the top and rear edge of
the motherboard cables must be routed
through the interior of the case though
some other shortcomings of the case can
be excused as old fashioned this
particular one is just cheap the chassis
is as short as it could possibly be in
its current configuration and putting
cutouts at the top would require more
height more materials and more tooling
the other reason for pressing an indent
into the side panels is to provide
stability against warping which sort of
works the entire case is constructed of
tissue thin 0.6 millimeter thick steel
with various foldings and Rowling's and
indents throughout it's to reinforce it
as a result the case is extremely light
six point three five kilograms
approximately half the weight of a 9 ZX
eh 700 and mostly holds its shape the
steel side panel was mashed in when we
got it though so that's a downside but
we were able to just pop it back out the
lightness is an important element of the
price both because minimal materials are
used and it's an expense of the ship the
completed product both side panels are
the old-school kind that take three arms
to press down and slide on but as far as
that sort of panel goes we've definitely
seen worse
as long as cables under the steel panel
we're bundled up tightly it never put up
much of a fight the other side panel has
a window in
a throwback to a time when every case
window was acrylic with scratches and
also it was tiny and pointless as with
many other older designs the side window
has to fight for space with the side
intake fan and the storage bays at the
front of the case with the dim black
interior shadowing anything that might
still peek through it the Zonda isn't
here to coddle you
the Zonda says oh you want some RGB here
have a dim orange LED a side window well
fine
now you can see the side of your hard
drive mount enjoy the side fan is one of
the best features of the case though
side fans had fallen out of favor even
before we started doing regular case
reviews but the cases from that era that
we've revisited handily beat almost
every modern case on the charts and GPU
thermals having a fan on the side of the
case makes it impossible to have a full
glass pane they're hard to plug into the
motherboard and they make taking the
side panel off harder but there's no
arguing with the thermal results we're
fully ready for the day that tempered
glass trends die down and side fans
return and when that day comes hopefully
it will be with better stock fans than
the DIY PC is incredibly flimsy offering
because the frames of the two LED fans
Bend whenever their screws are twisted
to tighten them down it sucks that
modern cases have so little support for
three and a half or five and a quarter
inch drives but the Zonda is a good
reminder of what the whole front of the
case is a mess since the drive cages
take up most of the height of the case
and are riveted into place it really
does remind us of why the industry has
moved away from this there are actually
5 and 1/4 inch bays for this one but
only one of them is accessible
externally so the other two are almost
totally useless as is the floppy bay
it's obvious that this chassis wasn't
originally designed at this front panel
because there's only a small gap between
the top of the hard drive cage and the
bottom of the floppy drive slot there's
only one fan mount wedged in the gap
with a single 120 millimeter fan
installed the mounts has riveted in
place even though there are rails with
mounting holes along the front of the
chassis so that it could be repositioned
of screws had been used instead we
assume this chassis is used in multiple
cases with fan rails riveted in
different positions depending on the
model we also assume that this is from a
factory that's had the tooling for a
deck
or more there are multiple holes on the
rails themselves but they only fit one
120mm fan although they're thick enough
that they could hold a 140 mm fan if
holes had been drilled for it it
wouldn't help much because the front
panel itself only has a tiny
decoratively shaved piece of mesh in
front of the fan with some needlessly
obstructive plastic decoration on top of
that for good measure on the subject of
the front panel the Zonda 1ups the Liane
Leal and cool to is empty USB port by
having an entire SD card reader missing
the holes for the SD card read are there
and there's labels molded into the
plastic to indicate that it was an SD
card reader but they're covered up by an
HD audio sticker that you could push in
if you wanted to the cases box was
marked not card reader ready so perhaps
there's another SKU out there somewhere
that includes it testing front i/o ports
isn't really part of our case review
process but we would put minimal faith
in the quality of the USB 3.0 and the
audio ports shielding is a concern when
you start getting this cheap fan support
throughout the case is bad the side vent
supports 120 or 140 fans which is nice
considering that the DIY PC case had to
nobly sacrifice window space to support
better cooling but also frustrating
since the stock fans are all 120ml and
the space was sacrificed for nothing the
rear mount only supports a 120mm fan as
does the front radiator support is
therefore technically limited to a 140
sometimes maybe although in practical
terms it's limited to 120
since nobody in their right mind would
try putting a radiator on the door or
put a radiator in a $34 case at all for
that matter for those not in their right
mind there are two being cutouts in the
rear of the case so you can always run
it externally like we did in the good
old days which weren't good and you
never got old DIY PC claims an advanced
bottom mounted PSU design and quotes
there as a case feature which is a
little less revolutionary in 2020 than
it was in 2001 still it means that the
power supply pulls air from under the
case rather than the interior and they
went through the trouble of putting a
plastic frame filter under the power
supply vent
unfortunately it ejects to the rear of
the case and is hard to access with the
case against a wall and there's nothing
to stop it from drooping down and
away from the vent that is supposed to
be filtering which is what happened on
ours
one interesting aspect of all the
crowding up front is that DIY PC took
the opportunity to cut an 80mm fan mount
into the metal between the drive cages
points it sideways in the gap between
the optical drives and the hard drives
as such it's pulling air from nowhere
and pushing it towards nothing but it
adds flexibility and doesn't hurt
anything so we're not really sure what
that means but we'll count it as a
positive building and the zonda wasn't
terrible
despite the pervasive cheapness and
ancient layout the only real roadblocks
were how small the case is and the lack
of a CPU power cut out now fina was
broken and nothing didn't fit if we
could change the design we'd eliminate
all the unusable optical drive bays
allow additional fan rails to be screwed
into the existing mounting holes on the
front and pick a more breathable front
panel design it's a good thing that we
can't change the design then we suspect
that DIY PC isn't able to change it
either and is able to keep its pricing
so low by avoiding retooling for as long
as possible and buying from someone else
for example by putting a sticker over an
unused i/o port rather than making a new
mold flawed as it is the fact that these
zonda cost 34 dollars is the most
compelling thing about it never change
DIY PC for the first time in a while we
limited ourselves to just our basic
lineup of case configurations the
extremely limited cooling supports in
the zonda makes our job easier since
nobody who buys this case is going to be
setting it up much differently on the
stock configuration the one major
deviation from our usual tests was the
standardized fan test we were forced to
get creative there because our
standardized set of fans is to 140
intakes and one 120 exhaust which we
chose because it works with minimal
alteration in almost any modern
mid-tower the zonda only has one front
intake slot however and it's 120 mil we
compromised by zip tine a 140 mph an on
to the front and sticking the other 140
mil fan in the side intake slot so
there's an two ended up benefiting from
its limitations but before we get ahead
of ourselves we need to look at the
torture test results see if you torture
thermals our first CPU load temperature
measured at 68 degrees Celsius Talton
see over ambience with an
uncharacteristically small temperature
reduction resulting from removing the
front panel only down to 66 degrees
normally we'd say that such a small
reduction is good as it'd be proof that
the front panel isn't obstructing air
flow and in a way that's true here as
well because there isn't any airflow to
obstruct in the first place
the anaemic front fan is obstructed by
the drive cages inside of the case and
isn't well placed for cpu cooling in the
first place so it doesn't make much
difference whether it's actually able to
pull air in or not for what it's worth
the IPC has avoided putting two layers
of mesh over the fan but the plastic
decoration in the front of the mesh is
just as bad perhaps unsurprisingly CPU
temperature is relative to the rest of
the chart or as bad as they could
possibly be it avoided throttling but
had it gotten any hotter literally any
hotter at all the CPU would have clocked
down for safety as it has in some other
especially bad cases we've reviewed in
the past we had higher hopes for the
zonda based on the fact that there was
some ventilation in the front but 68
degrees over ambience delta t that is is
corsair spec o4 or Walmarts dtw to your
performance the GPU torture temperature
was 48 degrees Celsius over ambient
which remained unchanged with the
removal of the front panel although it
had even less effect here than in our
CPU torture test that has less to do
with how bad the front panel is and more
to do with how good the side panel is
the 120 mil side fan isn't any higher
quality than the fans elsewhere in the
case but side intake vents are hugely
beneficial to GPU temperatures and any
benefits that might result from taking
the front panel off are completely
overshadowed by the cool air being
pumped in through the side of the case
to demonstrate this point the Zonda o is
among the best performing cases on GPU
temperatures for our comparative chart
even though it's one of the absolute
worst for CPU temperature 48 degrees
Celsius delta T over ambient is
performance on the level of the
silverstone raven o2 or though we'll
haven't dynamic in an especially
favorable fan configuration it's near
the half x with its side intake
performance is helped by the fact that
there's no filter over the side intake
which would cause some problems down the
line but it's worth the dust to get good
cooling in a dirt cheap enclosure at
some points a high-end case manufacturer
is probably going to rediscover that
slapping a $2 fan on the side of a case
will make it cool as well as a $500 c
and then they'll charge hundreds of
dollars for the privilege of swapping
out tempered glass for one that has a
fan mounted on it as if it's something
new the 3d mark results function as
confirmation of the GPU torture result
with an average of 47 degrees Celsius DT
on the GPU you know one of the highest
performing cases on this chart as well
the half acts performed similarly
another case with a side mounted intake
fan pointed directly into the GPU
there's a direct correlation between the
rise of tempered glass and the
elimination of side intake fans which
has trickled down even into the budget
market the Zonda is 120 mil intake fan
fits perfectly below the level of our GP
is cooler providing the optimal path for
incoming air although there's no great
direction for exhaust the blender CPU
render averaged 40 degrees CPU delta T
over ambiens a good bit lower than the
torture test but far beyond the
temperatures we normally see for this
particular workload the Walmart DC
double use case and the BitFenix and so
performs measurably worse but pretty
much any other option is at least as
good as the Zonda and most are
significantly better this test shows how
CPU temperatures fare when it's loaded
in isolation and without any risk of
throttling or in other words it can show
how bad CPU cooling is due to the cooler
pulling GPU exhaust and other tests we
can see that it's not the GPS fault that
the CPU got so hot in the torture test
it's just a bad case receive e cooling
period the same render with GPU
acceleration enabled resulted in a 23
degrees celsius GPU delta T over ambient
again cementing the zondas place is one
of the best cases on the chart for GPU
cooling in spite of its CPU cooling
performance from a moderate load like
this all the way up to fir marked
torture workload the side intake fan is
capable of keeping up as mentioned at
the beginning of the thermal section
this standardized fan test was a little
less standard than usual we don't really
count this but it'll show you an
optional upgrade pathway that's
imperfect cpu delta T over ambient was
53 degrees Celsius under these
conditions much improved from the
original 68 C torture results thanks to
the much higher quality fans this still
isn't an incredible result compared to
the other cases we've tested with these
fans but it's much more competitive than
it was in the torture test now beating
the rog helios and the age 510 elite as
well as the 11 XL on a
Figg that wasn't especially favorable
for Ziva performance this is the kind of
difference a good fan can make but it
doesn't matter there are three fan slots
in the zonda and all three come with
fans pre-installed pain three place even
one of these fans makes it no longer one
of the cheapest cases on the market and
there's no space to just add an
additional fan GPU temperatures with the
standardized fans also benefit with an
average of 45 degrees Celsius versus the
original 48 degrees over ambient that's
not as dramatic reduction but there
wasn't a lot of room for improvement in
the first place none of the other cases
we've tested with the standardized fans
have side intake slots and even if they
did we'd try to stick to the usual two
front one back config so the zonda
absolutely trounces every other result
on the chart because of that other than
the Lea Emily 11 XL we placed the 240
fans directly under the GPU for that
test so it had a similar advantage in
GPU cooling performance although the
Zonda was still a couple degrees cooler
the stock can always level with all the
case fans at 100% was 38 DBA
fairly quiet thanks to the case fans
embarrassing top speed of a thousand rpm
each of them would cycle between
accurately reporting their own speed and
then claiming to be running at about
2,000 rpm but we use the physical laser
tachometer to confirm that the lower
number was the correct one
the s340 elite and the stock mesh of IC
are in the same ballpark to cases that
are fairly quiet thanks to a solid front
panel and a lack of stock fans
respectively 38 DBA isn't much beyond
our noise normalized threshold of 36 DBA
but it's still required lowering the
case fan speed to 75 percent or 800 to
900 rpm in reality to achieve that noise
level CPU and GPU fans remain controlled
as always the CBO temperature was even
worse than stock up to a hellish 70
degrees Celsius Delta G / ambience while
the GPU temperature only suffered a
little bit with an average of 50 C the
cpu temperature wasn't worse than the
Enzo here whereas then the age 510 Elite
worse than any other case we've done
noise normalize tests on GPU
temperatures on the other hand were
better than every other results except
the 11 XL which again had the advantage
of to aftermarket nagato fans mounted
onto the GPU since the case comes with
no fan to reiterate what was said
earlier in this video there are a lot of
things we could suggest a change to him
this case all of those things would make
it more expensive because even the
slightest change requires at least
modifying a tool if not completely
retool in some part of the case and that
would make the case exit it's only
desired market or a selling point which
is to be the cheapest possible thing on
Newegg so you've got options here one of
them is to adapt the case if you're
going to build it and try to you could
modify it or you could replace the fans
we've shown that there's some success
there the problem again is that if
you're replacing fans but you have to
buy them you're now in a situation where
the case is no longer a $34.00 case it's
a $34 case plus the cost of fans so you
should just buy something else if you
have fans lying around it might be worth
it actually just looking at the back of
this now I've noticed too that the the
rear exhaust is largely obstructed by
metals they didn't even punch out all
the holes required to let it exhaust
poly but anyway there's things you could
do to kind of make this work but all of
them involve trying to find used parts
or parts you already have lying around
to brute force cooling in it you still
can't fix the other stuff though like
the older approach to design where
you've got the entire front quarter of
the case just completely wasted you have
the issues where there's no EPS 12-volt
routing options the kale management
space is limited it's just plain ugly is
something that's difficult to fix
without modding and now you're buying
paint or something else to fix that so
it's maybe there's a there's a point to
buy this would be if you're trying to
spend three four hundred dollars on a
system and you don't want to or can't
buy used but when we looked around at
the used market recently we found things
like NZXT h4 40s which are objectively
better in every single way than this
case and thermally a bit constrained but
so it'd be that's the one point that's
not true is the GPU thermals would be
better on this one but otherwise you can
find things like an h4 40 or a corsair
270 r or maybe even a c 70 something
like that used and you won't be in a
better spot than he would be if you
bought this new but that does require a
you
used a marketplace physically near you
Facebook market Craigslist whatever that
actually has active sellers on it so not
always the best solution anyway
this case has air flow that isn't
technically bad with better fans
installed but it is pointless to spend
the money GP performance is exceptional
and we do think that with time now that
you've seen the case manufacturers start
to shift back towards mesh designs with
CES 2020 now behind us we think that
with time probably one of the next
evolutions of that design will be
someone making a steel side panel and
putting a fan in it and then claiming
that it's revolutionary cooling
performance for the GPU and those words
almost exactly will likely be used to
describe it something that is by the way
decades old at this point but has
disappeared with these resurgence or
with the the new surge of tempered glass
in even 50 60 $70 cases so that's
probably the future for case design with
side fans coming back but either way we
don't really think you should buy this
case on average it is not a hidden gem
it's not particularly good the build
quality is bad it's cheap materials so
if you're really desperate maybe but
look for something used first so that's
it for the DIY pcs onto oh I don't know
if there's interested in more cases from
this company we could look at them we've
learned that it is actually fairly
popular buying choice from for example
high school students so if you're
extremely restricted don't really have
much money to scrape together then
that's about the only time we could
recommend it otherwise it literally
anything else that's it for this one
thanks for watching subscribe for more
go to store documents access dotnet to
help set directly and it will see you
all next time
[Music]